Setup and Installation Guide
Lexora AI


First thing you need to do is make sure Python is installed in your system.
Go to python.org and download Python 3.9 or above. During install check the box that says "Add Python to PATH".

You also need a Gemini API Key. Go to Google AI Studio and create one. It is free.


Step 1 - Download the project

Download the project folder and extract it somewhere in your computer.


Step 2 - Open terminal

Open command prompt or powershell and go inside the project folder.

Example:
cd "Lexora AI"


Step 3 - Create virtual environment

python -m venv venv

Then activate it.

On Windows:
venv\Scripts\activate

On Mac or Linux:
source venv/bin/activate

After this you should see (venv) in your terminal. That means it worked.


Step 4 - Install all required packages

pip install -r requirements.txt

This will install everything. It may take few minutes depending on your internet.


Step 5 - Create the .env file

In the project folder create a file named .env and put this inside it.

SECRET_KEY=anyrandomstringyouwant
GEMINI_API_KEY=paste your gemini api key here

Save the file.


Step 6 - Run the application

python app.py

Now open your browser and go to

http://127.0.0.1:5000


That's it. The app will load. First time it will ask you to register. Create an account and you can start using it.


How to use

After login you will see the dashboard. Click New Project to create a workspace.

Then go inside the project and upload a PDF or DOCX or TXT file.

After upload is done you can type your question in the chat box on the right side and Lexora AI will answer based on your document.

You can also click the small icon next to each document to get a summary of that file.

To clear chat just click Clear History button at the top of the chat.


Common Issues

If you see an error about API key just check your .env file and make sure the key is correct.

If packages fail to install try running the command again or upgrade pip first using this command.

python -m pip install --upgrade pip

If the app shows database error just delete the database.db file inside the instance folder and restart the app. It will create a fresh one.
